[CUBRIDMAN-224] Manual for correlated subquery result cache (#526)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/tuning.rst

*   **NO_COVERING_IDX**: This is a hint not to use the covering index. For details, see :ref:`covering-index`.
*   **NO_MULTI_RANGE_OPT**: This is a hint not to use the multi-key range optimization. For details, see :ref:`multi-key-range-opt`.
*   **NO_SORT_LIMIT**: This is a hint not to use the SORT-LIMIT optimization. For more details, see :ref:`sort-limit-optimization`.

> *   **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE**: SUBQUERY_CACHE 최적화를 사용하지 않기 위한 힌트이다. 

Reviewer: 영문 매뉴얼입니다. 영어로 작성해주세요.

> *   **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE**: This is a hint not to use the SUBQUERY CACHE optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE**: This is a hint not to use the SUBQUERY CACHE optimization. For more details, see :ref:`subquery-cache`.
```

Author: 코드 리뷰 적용했습니다. 확인 부탁드립니다.

    }

The cached query is shown as **query_string** in the middle of the result screen. Each of the **n_entries** and **n_pages** represents the number of cached queries and the number of pages in the cached results. The **n_entries** is limited to the value of configuration parameter **max_query_cache_entries** and the **n_pages** is limited to the value of **query_cache_size_in_pages**. If the **n_entries** is overflown or the **n_pages** is overflown, some victims among the cache entries are selected and they are uncached. The number of victims is about 20% of **max_query_cache_entries** value and of the **query_cache_size_in_pages** value.

.. _correlated-subquery-cache:

SUBQUERY CACHE (correlated)
------------------------------------

> Subquery cache optimization can enhance the performance of queries including correlated subqueries by caching each subquery's results in separate spaces. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subquery cache optimization can enhance the performance of queries including correlated subqueries by caching each subquery's results in private memory space per subquery. 
```

This optimization is enabled by default. 
To disable it during query execution, use the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint on the target subquery.

> If the correlated subquery is in the SELECT clause, subquery cache is utilized. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the correlated subquery is in the SELECT clause, subquery cache is enabled. 
The processing mechanism of the cache is as follows:
```

> The operational procedure involves using cached results when the values of columns referenced in a rerun correlated subquery match those in the main query. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the column values ​​of the search conditions of the re-executed correlated subquery are the same, the cached results are used instead of executing the subquery.
```

> If no cached value is found, the subquery is executed and its results, along with the column values and query results, are cached.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the cached value cannot be found in the subquery cache, after executing the subquery, the retrieved column value and results are stored in the subquery cache.
```

> When executing queries with a request for SQL trace information, trace details about the subquery cache are displayed as part of the information on the correlated subquery that employs subquery cache optimization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When executing a query using query profiling, the profile results for the subquery cache are displayed as part of the profile for correlated subqueries.
```

Reviewer 2: query profiling에 대해서는 link을  걸어주세요.

Author: 네

> The following example displays trace information for the subquery cache in a case where the subquery cache is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example is displayed subquery cache profiling information ,when performing a correlated subquery.
```

::

    csql> SELECT /*+ RECOMPILE NO_MERGE */
            (SELECT t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
          FROM t1 a
          WHERE a.c2 >= 1;

    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 108, fetch: 103639, fetch_time: 13, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 70, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 99000)
        SUBQUERY (correlated)
          SELECT (time: 4, fetch: 2970, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 2, fetch: 1980, ioread: 0, readkeys: 990, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 990, covered: true)
            SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 98010, miss: 990, size: 269384, status: enabled)
 
Descriptions for each item are as follows:

> * **hit**: The number of times results were retrieved from the cached area instead of executing the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **hit**: The number of retrieves from the cache without executing the query
```

> * **miss**: The number of times results were cached after executing the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **miss**: The number of stored into the cache after executing the query. (miss in the cache)
```

* **size**: The memory size used by the subquery cache.

> * **status**: The activation status of the subquery cache at the end of the query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **status**: The activation status of the subquery cache at the end of executing the query.
```

> If the **size** of the subquery cache exceeds the configured value during query execution, the subquery cache is deactivated, and the **status** is displayed as disabled in the SQL trace information. Additionally, even if the **size** does not exceed the set value, the cache may be deactivated during query execution if **miss**/**hit** ratio exceeds 9, indicating a high rate of cache misses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During query execution, if the **size** of the subquery cache exceeds the set value, or the **size** does not exceed the set value, but the **miss**/**hit** ratio exceeds 9 (the miss rate is determined to be high), the subquery cache is disabled, and the **status** of the profiling information is marked as disabled.
```

> The following is an example query designed to count the results of a correlated subquery that is repeatedly executed to assess performance differences with and without the use of subquery caching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example is a query that counts the results of a correlated subquery that is executed repeatedly to check performance improvement depending on whether subquery caching is used.
```

> The following is the query to prepare the data needed to perform the example query is provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following query makes data to perform example queries.
```

::
    
    # Prepare data
    csql> DROP TABLE IF EXISTS t1;
    
    csql> CREATE TABLE t1 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM AS t1_pk,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 10) AS c1,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 100) AS c2,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 1000) AS c3
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b, db_class c, db_class d, db_class e, db_class f
            LIMIT 100000;
    
    csql> ALTER TABLE t1 ADD CONSTRAINT PRIMARY KEY pk_t1 (t1_pk);

    csql> CREATE TABLE t2 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM as c1,
                    1 as c2,
                    TO_CHAR(ROWNUM * 1000, '0999') as code
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b
            LIMIT 10;
    
    csql> update statistics on t1 with fullscan;
    
    csql> ;trace on  

> Query #1 was executed using subquery cache optimization, while Query #2 was performed with the subquery cache disabled using the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Query #1 is executed using subquery cache optimization, while Query #2 is executed without the subquery cache optimization using the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint.
```

> Comparing the results of both queries reveals that the use of subquery cache optimization improves response performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By comparing the results of the two queries, you can see subquery cache optimization improves response performance.
```

|                     99000                                              |                     99000                                                                      |
|                                                                        |                                                                                                |
|     1 row selected. (0.128251 sec) Committed. (0.000010 sec)           |     1 row selected. (0.626199 sec) Committed. (0.000011 sec)                                   |
|                                                                        |                                                                                                |
|     1 command(s) successfully processed.                               |     1 command(s) successfully processed.                                                       |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> Subquery cache does not operate in the following scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subquery cache optimization does not work in the following scenarios:
```

> * When the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery. (The lowest level correlated subquery is cached, while the correlated subquery that includes another correlated subquery is not cached.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery. (However, cache optimization works on the innermost subquery that does not contain any other correlated subqueries.)
```

* When the subquery is not in the SELECT clause.
* When the subquery includes CONNECT BY clause.
* When the subquery includes OID-related features.
* When the subquery includes the **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE** hint.

> * When storing new results exceeds the set subquery cache size (default: 2MB).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the using subquery cache memory size exceeds the configured size (default: 2MB).
```

* When the subquery contains functions that change results with each execution, such as random() or sys_guid().

> The following example shows the case where subquery caching is applied only to the lowest level correlated subquery, while the upper level correlated subquery does not utilize subquery caching.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows that subquery caching is enabled only for the innermost correlated subquery and disabled for the outer correlated subquery.
```

::

    csql> SELECT /*+ recompile */ 
            (
                SELECT 
                    (
                        SELECT c.code
                        FROM t2 c
                        WHERE c.c1 = b.c1
                    ) 
                FROM t1 b 
                WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c1
            ) s
            FROM t1 a
            WHERE a.c3 = 1;
    
    Trace Statistics:
        SELECT (time: 56, fetch: 100785, fetch_time: 10, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 55, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 100)
            SUBQUERY (correlated)
            SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 401, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 0, fetch: 300, ioread: 0, readkeys: 100, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 100) (lookup time: 0, rows: 100)
                SUBQUERY (correlated)
                SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 1, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                    SCAN (table: dba.t2), (heap time: 0, fetch: 1, ioread: 0, readrows: 10, rows: 1)
                    SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 99, miss: 1, size: 150704, status: enabled)

> The following example shows the deactivation of subquery caching when the correlated subquery includes functions like random(), which yield different results with each execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows that subquery cache optimization is disabled, when the correlated subquery includes random () functions which yield different results with each execution.
```

.. _correlated-subquery-cache:

SUBQUERY CACHE (correlated)
------------------------------------

Subquery cache optimization can enhance the performance of queries including correlated subqueries by caching each subquery's results in private memory space per subquery. 
This optimization is enabled by default. 
To disable it during query execution, use the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint on the target subquery.

When the correlated subquery is in the SELECT clause, subquery cache is enabled. 
The processing mechanism of the cache is as follows:
If the column values ​​of the search conditions of the re-executed correlated subquery are the same, the cached results are used instead of executing the subquery.
If the cached value cannot be found in the subquery cache, after executing the subquery, the retrieved column value and results are stored in the subquery cache.

When executing a query using :ref:`query profiling <query-profiling>`\, the profile results for the subquery cache are displayed as part of the profile for correlated subqueries.

> The following example is displayed subquery cache profiling information ,when performing a correlated subquery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example is displayed subquery cache profiling information, when performing a correlated subquery.
```

> The following example is displayed subquery cache profiling information, when performing a correlated subquery.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example displays subquery cache profiling information, when performing a correlated subquery.
```

::

    csql> SELECT /*+ RECOMPILE NO_MERGE */
            (SELECT t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
          FROM t1 a
          WHERE a.c2 >= 1;

    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 108, fetch: 103639, fetch_time: 13, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 70, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 99000)
        SUBQUERY (correlated)
          SELECT (time: 4, fetch: 2970, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 2, fetch: 1980, ioread: 0, readkeys: 990, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 990, covered: true)
            SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 98010, miss: 990, size: 269384, status: enabled)
 
Descriptions for each item are as follows:

> * **hit**: The number of retrieves from the cache without executing the query

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **hit**: The number of retrieves from the cache without executing the query.
```

> * **miss**: The number of stored into the cache after executing the query. (miss in the cache)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **miss**: The number of stored into the cache after executing the query. (the number of not found in the cache)
```

> * **miss**: The number of stored into the cache after executing the query. (the number of not found in the cache)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **miss**: The number of times the result of a query execution is stored into the cache (the number of times a query result is not found in the cache).
```

* **size**: The memory size used by the subquery cache.
* **status**: The activation status of the subquery cache at the end of executing the query.

> During query execution, if the **size** of the subquery cache exceeds the set value, or the **size** does not exceed the set value, but the **miss**/**hit** ratio exceeds 9 (the miss rate is determined to be high), the subquery cache is disabled, and the **status** of the profiling information is marked as disabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During query execution, if the **size** of the subquery cache exceeds the set value, or the **size** does not exceed the set value but the **miss**/**hit** ratio exceeds 9 (the miss rate is determined to be high), the subquery cache is disabled, and the **status** of the profiling information is marked as disabled.
```

> The following example is a query that counts the results of a correlated subquery that is executed repeatedly to check performance improvement depending on whether subquery caching is used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example contains queries that count the results of a correlated subquery that is executed repeatedly to check for performance improvements depending on whether subquery caching is used.
```

> The following query makes data to perform example queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following query creates data to perform the example queries.
```

::
    
    # Prepare data
    csql> DROP TABLE IF EXISTS t1;
    
    csql> CREATE TABLE t1 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM AS t1_pk,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 10) AS c1,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 100) AS c2,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 1000) AS c3
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b, db_class c, db_class d, db_class e, db_class f
            LIMIT 100000;
    
    csql> ALTER TABLE t1 ADD CONSTRAINT PRIMARY KEY pk_t1 (t1_pk);

    csql> CREATE TABLE t2 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM as c1,
                    1 as c2,
                    TO_CHAR(ROWNUM * 1000, '0999') as code
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b
            LIMIT 10;
    
    csql> update statistics on t1 with fullscan;
    
    csql> ;trace on  

> Query #1 is executed using subquery cache optimization, while Query #2 is executed without the subquery cache optimization using the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Query #1 is executed using subquery cache optimization, while Query #2 is executed without subquery cache optimization by using the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint.
```

> By comparing the results of the two queries, you can see subquery cache optimization improves response performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comparison of the results from the two queries reveals that subquery cache optimization improves response performance.
```

|                     99000                                              |                     99000                                                                      |
|                                                                        |                                                                                                |
|     1 row selected. (0.128251 sec) Committed. (0.000010 sec)           |     1 row selected. (0.626199 sec) Committed. (0.000011 sec)                                   |
|                                                                        |                                                                                                |
|     1 command(s) successfully processed.                               |     1 command(s) successfully processed.                                                       |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Subquery cache optimization does not work in the following scenarios:

> * When the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery. (However, correlated subqueries not included other correlated subqueries is worked subquery cache optimization.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery. (However, subquery cache optimization is performed for the innermost correlated subquery that does not contain other correlated subqueries.)

* When the subquery is not in the SELECT clause.

> * When the subquery includes CONNECT BY clause.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When the subquery includes a CONNECT BY clause.
```

* When the subquery includes OID-related features.
* When the subquery includes the **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE** hint.

> * When the using subquery cache memory size exceeds the configured size (default: 2MB).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When the subquery cache memory size exceeds the configured size (default: 2MB).
```

> * When the subquery contains functions that change results with each execution, such as random() or sys_guid().

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When the subquery contains functions that produce different results with each execution, such as random() or sys_guid().
```

::

    csql> SELECT /*+ recompile */ 
            (
                SELECT 
                    (
                        SELECT c.code
                        FROM t2 c
                        WHERE c.c1 = b.c1
                    ) 
                FROM t1 b 
                WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c1
            ) s
            FROM t1 a
            WHERE a.c3 = 1;
    
    Trace Statistics:
        SELECT (time: 56, fetch: 100785, fetch_time: 10, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 55, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 100)
            SUBQUERY (correlated)
            SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 401, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 0, fetch: 300, ioread: 0, readkeys: 100, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 100) (lookup time: 0, rows: 100)
                SUBQUERY (correlated)
                SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 1, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                    SCAN (table: dba.t2), (heap time: 0, fetch: 1, ioread: 0, readrows: 10, rows: 1)
                    SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 99, miss: 1, size: 150704, status: enabled)

> The following example shows that subquery cache optimization is disabled, when the correlated subquery includes random () functions which yield different results with each execution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows that subquery cache optimization is disabled when the correlated subquery includes random() functions, which yield different results with each execution.
```

.. _correlated-subquery-cache:

SUBQUERY CACHE (correlated)
------------------------------------

Subquery cache optimization can be used to enhance the performance of queries containing correlated subqueries, and the results of the subqueries are cached in independent spaces for each subquery.
To disable subquery cache optimization, use the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint on the target subquery.

Subquery cache does not operate in the following scenarios:

* When the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery.
* When the subquery is not in the SELECT clause.
* When the subquery includes OID-related features.
* When the subquery includes the NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE hint.
* When storing new results exceeds the set subquery cache size (default: 2MB).
* When the subquery contains functions that change results with each execution, such as random() or sys_guid().

If the correlated subquery is in the SELECT clause, subquery cache is utilized.

> Among the recurrently executed correlated subqueries, if the column values referenced in the main query remain the same, the cached results are used to prevent re-execution.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Among the recurrently executed correlated subqueries, if the column values referenced in the main query remain the same with previously cached values, the cached results are used to prevent re-execution.
```

> If no cached query is found, the subquery is processed and its results, along with the column values and query results, are cached.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If no cached value is found, the subquery is processed and its results, along with the column values and query results, are cached.
```

> If no cached value is found, the subquery is processed and its results, along with the column values and query results, are cached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no cached value is found, the subquery is executed and its results, along with the column values and query results, are cached.
```

If the same column values are found in the cache, the results are retrieved from the cached area.

The following example measures the performance difference depending on whether the subquery cache is used or not.
First, a query to prepare the data for measuring performance differences is written: ::
    
    # Prepare data

>     csql> drop table if exists t1;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    csql> DROP TABLE IF EXISTS t1;
```

    csql> CREATE TABLE t1 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM AS t1_pk,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 10) AS c1,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 100) AS c2,
                    MOD(ROWNUM, 1000) AS c3
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b, db_class c, db_class d, db_class e, db_class f
            LIMIT 100000;
    
    csql> ALTER TABLE t1 ADD CONSTRAINT PRIMARY KEY pk_t1 (t1_pk);

    csql> CREATE TABLE t2 AS
            SELECT
                    ROWNUM as c1,
                    1 as c2,
                    TO_CHAR(ROWNUM * 1000, '0999') as code
            FROM 
                    db_class a, db_class b
            LIMIT 10;
    
    csql> update statistics on t1 with fullscan;
    
    csql> ;trace on  
 
In CSQL, the improved performance can be easily measured by repeatedly executing queries using the COUNT function as shown in the example below.

> The results of the first subquery might be slow as the cache is not activated using the **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE** hint, but from the second execution, it becomes much faster because it retrieves from the cached area: ::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The results of the first example might be slow as the cache is not activated using the **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE** hint, but from the second example, it becomes much faster because it retrieves from the cached area: ::
```

The results of the first example might be slow as the cache is not activated using the **NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE** hint, but from the second example, it becomes much faster because it retrieves from the cached area: ::

    # Target query #1

>     csql> SELECT count(*) from (
>             SELECT /*+ recompile no_merge */
>             (SELECT /*+ NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE */ t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
>             FROM
>             t1 a
>             WHERE a.c2 >= 1);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    csql> SELECT COUNT(*)
            FROM (
                   SELECT /*+ RECOMPILE NO_MERGE */
                          (SELECT /*+ NO_SUBQUERY_CACHE */ t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
                     FROM t1 a
                    WHERE a.c2 >= 1
                 );

```

    === <Result of SELECT Command in Line 2> ===

                  count(*)
    ======================
                     99000

    1 row selected. (0.626199 sec) Committed. (0.000011 sec) 

    1 command(s) successfully processed.

    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 621, fetch: 397811, fetch_time: 56, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (temp time: 7, fetch: 142, ioread: 0, readrows: 99000, rows: 99000)
        SUBQUERY (uncorrelated)
          SELECT (time: 607, fetch: 397669, fetch_time: 56, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 98, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 99000)
            SUBQUERY (correlated)
              SELECT (time: 460, fetch: 297000, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 243, fetch: 198000, ioread: 0, readkeys: 99000, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 99000, covered: true)

> When SQL trace is queried, trace information about the subquery cache for the relevant subquery is displayed.
> The following example displays trace information for the subquery cache in a case where the subquery cache is enabled: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When SQL trace is queried, trace information about the subquery cache for the relevant subquery is displayed.

The following example displays trace information for the subquery cache in a case where the subquery cache is enabled: ::
```

>     csql> SELECT count(*) from (
>             SELECT /*+ recompile no_merge */
>             (SELECT t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
>             FROM
>             t1 a
>             WHERE a.c2 >= 1);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    csql> SELECT COUNT(*)
            FROM (
                   SELECT /*+ RECOMPILE NO_MERGE */
                          (SELECT t1_pk FROM t1 b WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c3)
                     FROM t1 a
                    WHERE a.c2 >= 1
                 );

```

            SUBQUERY (correlated)
              SELECT (time: 4, fetch: 2970, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 2, fetch: 1980, ioread: 0, readkeys: 990, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 990, covered: true)
                SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 98010, miss: 990, size: 269384, status: enabled)

Descriptions for each item are as follows:

* **hit**: The number of times results were retrieved from the cached area instead of executing the query.
* **miss**: The number of times results were cached after executing the query.
* **size**: The memory size used by the subquery cache.
* **status**: The activation status of the subquery cache at the end of the query.

If **size** exceeds the set value, the subquery cache is disabled during the execution of the query, and the SQL trace information shows **status** as disabled. 
Additionally, if the ratio of **miss** to **hit** is higher than 9, even if the subquery cache size does not exceed the set value, it may be disabled during the execution of the query.

Subquery cache is disabled if the correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery. 

> However, if the included correlated subquery does not contain another correlated subquery, it is enabled. 
> The following example shows a case where a correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the included correlated subquery does not contain another correlated subquery, it is enabled. 

The following example shows a case where a correlated subquery contains another correlated subquery: ::
```

    csql> SELECT /*+ recompile */ 
            (
                SELECT 
                    (
                        SELECT c.code
                        FROM t2 c
                        WHERE c.c1 = b.c1
                    ) 
                FROM t1 b 
                WHERE b.t1_pk = a.c1
            ) s
            FROM t1 a
            WHERE a.c3 = 1;
    
    Trace Statistics:
        SELECT (time: 56, fetch: 100785, fetch_time: 10, ioread: 0)
            SCAN (table: dba.t1), (heap time: 55, fetch: 100384, ioread: 0, readrows: 100000, rows: 100)
            SUBQUERY (correlated)
            SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 401, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                SCAN (index: dba.t1.pk_t1), (btree time: 0, fetch: 300, ioread: 0, readkeys: 100, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 100) (lookup time: 0, rows: 100)
                SUBQUERY (correlated)
                SELECT (time: 0, fetch: 1, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
                    SCAN (table: dba.t2), (heap time: 0, fetch: 1, ioread: 0, readrows: 10, rows: 1)
                    SUBQUERY_CACHE (hit: 99, miss: 1, size: 150704, status: enabled)

> Moreover, subquery cache is disabled in a correlated subquery that includes functions like random (), sys_guid () that produce different results each time they are executed.
> The following example shows a case where a correlated subquery includes random (): ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, subquery cache is disabled in a correlated subquery that includes functions like random (), sys_guid () that produce different results each time they are executed.

The following example shows a case where a correlated subquery includes random (): ::
```

> This is because using subquery cache would mean that a correlated subquery that includes functions that should return different results each time would fetch results from the cached area, returning the same results every time.

Reviewer 4: 문장이 너무 어렵네요. 따로 설명하지 않아도 될것 같습니다.

Author: 네.
